README.md, before:


# Federated Learning with Homomorphic Encryption

This repository demonstrates a Federated Learning (FL) setup enhanced with Homomorphic Encryption to ensure the privacy of the model's parameters during transmission. It employs the Flower (flwr) framework for FL orchestration and TenSEAL for encryption, configured with a Hydra-based dynamic control system.

## Malicious Client Simulation

The `malicious_client.py` is not part of the main federated learning workflow but is used to simulate a security breach by extracting and saving model parameters transmitted by the server. This simulation highlights potential vulnerabilities in federated learning systems and underscores the importance of encrypting model parameters, which is implemented in this project.

## Project Structure

- **`client.py`**: Contains the federated learning client logic. It trains the model locally, encrypts the parameters using homomorphic encryption, and communicates with the server.
- **`server.py`**: The federated learning server which aggregates encrypted parameters from various clients and updates the global model.
- **`malicious_client.py`**: A mock malicious client designed to simulate the extraction and saving of received model parameters, testing the security resilience of the FL setup.
- **`model.py`**: Defines the neural network model architecture used in the federated learning clients.
- **`utils.py`**: Includes utility functions and configurations for setting up the homomorphic encryption context using TenSEAL.
- **`conf/base.yaml`**: Hydra configuration file defining server and strategy parameters like number of rounds, minimum clients, etc.
- **`extracted_parameters/`**: Directory intended for storing parameters extracted by the malicious client.
- **`output/`**: Directory where all metrics like accuracy and loss from each epoch are stored with date and timestamp as the filename.

## How to Run

### Preliminary Step

Before running the server and clients, execute the `utils.py` script to generate the necessary public and secret context pickle files:

```bash
python utils.py
```

### Run the FL Server

Start the federated learning server using:

```bash
python server.py
```

This launches the server using settings defined in `conf/base.yaml`.

### Run FL Clients

To start a federated learning client:

```bash
python client.py --label=<label_id>
```

Replace `<label_id>` with the appropriate label for the client. Each client must be started with a specific label, and an error message will prompt you to specify a label if it is not provided.


### Customize Configuration

Modify the configurations in `conf/base.yaml` to adjust server and client behavior. Command line overrides are also supported:

```bash
python server.py server.num_rounds=5 server.min_fit_clients=4
```

## Key Configuration Options

- **`server.num_rounds`**: The number of rounds the federated learning process should run.
- **`server.min_fit_clients`**: The minimum number of clients required to start a training round.
- **`server.min_eval_clients`**: The minimum number of clients required for evaluation.
- **`strategy.name`**: The FL strategy to use (e.g., `FedAvg` with homomorphic encryption support).

---

Commit message:

Added the global model evaluation file

README.md, after:


# Federated Learning with Homomorphic Encryption

This repository demonstrates a Federated Learning (FL) setup enhanced with Homomorphic Encryption to ensure the privacy of the model's parameters during transmission. It employs the Flower (flwr) framework for FL orchestration and TenSEAL for encryption, configured with a Hydra-based dynamic control system.

## Malicious Client Simulation

The `malicious_client.py` is not part of the main federated learning workflow but is used to simulate a security breach by extracting and saving model parameters transmitted by the server. This simulation highlights potential vulnerabilities in federated learning systems and underscores the importance of encrypting model parameters, which is implemented in this project.

## Project Structure

- **`client.py`**: Contains the federated learning client logic. It trains the model locally, encrypts the parameters using homomorphic encryption, and communicates with the server.
- **`server.py`**: The federated learning server which aggregates encrypted parameters from various clients and updates the global model.
- **`malicious_client.py`**: A mock malicious client designed to simulate the extraction and saving of received model parameters, testing the security resilience of the FL setup.
- **`model.py`**: Defines the neural network model architecture used in the federated learning clients.
- **`utils.py`**: Includes utility functions and configurations for setting up the homomorphic encryption context using TenSEAL.
- **`conf/base.yaml`**: Hydra configuration file defining server and strategy parameters like number of rounds, minimum clients, etc.
- **`extracted_parameters/`**: Directory intended for storing parameters extracted by the malicious client.
- **`output/`**: Directory where all metrics like accuracy and loss from each epoch are stored with date and timestamp as the filename.

## How to Run

### Preliminary Step

Before running the server and clients, execute the `utils.py` script to generate the necessary public and secret context pickle files:

```bash
python utils.py
```

### Run the FL Server

Start the federated learning server using:

```bash
python server.py
```

This launches the server using settings defined in `conf/base.yaml`.

### Run FL Clients

To start a federated learning client:

```bash
python client.py --label=<label_id>
```

Replace `<label_id>` with the appropriate label for the client. Each client must be started with a specific label, and an error message will prompt you to specify a label if it is not provided.


### Output File

The output timestamp file is defined in `outputs/`




## Key Configuration Options

- **`server.num_rounds`**: The number of rounds the federated learning process should run.
- **`server.min_fit_clients`**: The minimum number of clients required to start a training round.
- **`server.min_eval_clients`**: The minimum number of clients required for evaluation.
- **`strategy.name`**: The FL strategy to use (e.g., `FedAvg` with homomorphic encryption support).

---
